---
id: erc1155
title: ERC1155
description: Build your next blockchain app on Polygon.
keywords:
  - docs
  - polygon
image: https://matic.network/banners/matic-network-16x9.png
---

## Quick Summary

ERC1155 tokens transferred through the FxPortal can take advantage of the tunnel mechanism that allows for deposit of tokens on the root chain and withdrawal on the child chain. This specially crafted tunnels are the **FxERC1155RootTunnel** and the **FxERC1155ChildTunnel**. With these tunnels, mapping is automated, state sync is triggered and messages are passed from one chain to the other. Let's talk about these tunnels and the most important functions inside them, shall we?

## FxERC1155RootTunnel

- `mapToken(rootToken)`: Used to map your root ERC1155 token to child chain
- `deposit(rootToken, user, id, amount, data)`: Function used to deposit root tokens to child chain
- `depositBatch(rootToken, user, ids, amounts, bytes memory data)`: Used for multiple token Ids and corresponding amounts
- `receiveMessage(inputData):` To be called after burn proof has been generated with the payload as inputData

## FxERC1155ChildTunnel

- `withdraw(childToken, id, amount, data)`: Used to withdraw token from Polygon to Ethereum
- `withdrawBatch(childToken, ids, amounts, data)`: Same as withdraw but for withdrawing multiple token Ids

### Steps for depositing ERC1155 tokens from Ethereum to Polygon[#](https://docs.matic.network/docs/develop/l1-l2-communication/fx-portal#steps-for-depositing-erc1155-tokens-from-ethereum-to-polygon)

1. Deploy your ERC1155 token on the root chain. You will need this address later.
2. Call `setApprovalForAll(operator, approved)` on the deployed token with **FxERC1155RootTunnel's** address as operator to allow **FxERC1155RootTunnel** to transfer your tokens to **FxERC1155ChildTunnel** on Polygon.
3. Call `mapToken()` on **FxERC1155RootTunnel** with your deployed token's address as rootToken. This will send a message to **FxERC1155ChildTunnel** instructing it to deploy and map the ERC1155 token on Polygon. To query your child token address, call `rootToChildToken` on **FxERC1155ChildTunnel**.
4. Call `deposit()` on **FxERC1155RootTunnel** with the address of the token on Ethereum as rootToken, receiver as user, token Id as id and the amount as amount. Alternatively, you can also call `depositBatch()` for multiple token ids.

**Note:** After you have performed `deposit()` on the root chain, it will take 10-15 minutes for state sync to happen. Once state sync happens, you will get the tokens deposited at the given address.

### Steps to withdraw ERC1155 tokens from Polygon to Ethereum[#](https://docs.matic.network/docs/develop/l1-l2-communication/fx-portal#steps-to-withdraw-erc1155-tokens-from-polygon-to-ethereum)

1. Call `withdraw()` on **FxERC1155ChildTunnel** with the address of the child token deployed on Polygon as the childToken and the token id as id (the child token address can be queried from rootToChildToken mapping). Alternatively, you can also call withdrawBatch() for multiple token ids and corresponding amounts. **Note the tx hash** as this will be used to generate the burn proof.

###