---
id: erc721
title: ERC721
description: Build your next blockchain app on Polygon.
keywords:
  - docs
  - polygon
image: https://matic.network/banners/matic-network-16x9.png
---

## Quick Summary

ERC721 tokens and assets can also take advantage of the FxPortal for transfer and withdrawals across the child and root chains. For this particular subset of assets, the **FxERC721RootTunnel** and the **FxERC721ChildTunnel** exist. With these tunnels, just like the FxERC20Child and Root tunnels, the mapping is automated, state sync is triggered and messages are passed from one chain to the other. Let's talk about these tunnels, shall we?

## FxERC721RootTunnel

The **[FxERC721RootTunnel](https://github.com/fx-portal/contracts/blob/main/contracts/examples/erc721-transfer/FxERC721RootTunnel.sol)** uses the power of the FxPortal to send and receive ERC20 tokens from the child to the root chain. This tunnel uses the FxRoot, the FxChild and a couple of other helper functions to move the tokens from one end to the other. 

Here are some important functions that should be known if you're using the **FxERC20RootTunnel**

- `mapToken(address rootToken)` The `mapToken()` function is called to on the deployed contract to map your ERC721 token and create a corresponding child token on the child chain. Because this isn't the PoS bridge or the Plasma bridge either, there is no need to map your tokens before hand. If the token isn't mapped, this function does this for you.
- `deposit(address rootToken, address user, uint256 amount, bytes memory data):` The `deposit()` function is called with the address of the mapped token, the withdrawal address, the corresponding amount and the data if needed. You must have approved the contract using the standard ERC721 `Approve` function to spend your tokens first.
- `processMessageFromChild(bytes memory data)` : The `processMessageFromChild()` function is the exit function from the **FxERC721RootTunnel**. It's called with the data that was successfully transferred from the Child chain and then goes on to transfer the tokens from the parent to the child chain

## FxERC721ChildTunnel

The [FxERC721ChildTunnel](https://github.com/fx-portal/contracts/blob/main/contracts/examples/erc721-transfer/FxERC721ChildTunnel.sol) is the contract that is deployed on the child chain to facilitate the withdrawal and deposit of ERC721 tokens. Here are some important functions that should be known if you're using the **FxERC721ChildTunnel**

- `withdraw(address childToken, uint256 amount)` The `withdraw()` function is used to remove all the coins assigned to the address in the `address` parameter of the deposit function. The address will receive the child token created when first mapped.
- `rootToChildToken` This public variable contains the root token to child token mapping. You can query the mapping with the address of the root token to know the address of the deployed child token.

## Deposit

### Steps for ERC721 transfer from Ethereum to Polygon[#](https://docs.matic.network/docs/develop/l1-l2-communication/fx-portal#steps-for-erc721-transfer-from-ethereum-to-polygon)

1. Deploy your own ERC721 token on the root chain. You will need this address later.
2. Approve the tokens for transfer by calling the approve() function of the root token with the address of the root tunnel and the token ID as the arguments.
3. Proceed to call deposit() with the address of the receiver and token ID on the root chain to receive the equivalent child token on the child chain. This will also map the token automatically. Alternatively, you can call mapToken() first before depositing.

**Note:** After you have performed deposit() on the root chain, it will take 10-15 minutes for state sync to happen. Once state sync happens, you will get the tokens deposited at the given address.

### Steps for ERC721 transfer from Polygon to Ethereum[#](https://docs.matic.network/docs/develop/l1-l2-communication/fx-portal#steps-for-erc721-transfer-from-polygon-to-ethereum)

1. Proceed to call withdraw() with the respective token address and token ID as arguments on the child contract to move the child tokens back to the designated receiver on the root chain. **Note the tx hash** as this will be used to generate the burn proof.